= GIFLIB =

This is the README file of giflib, a library for manipulating gif files.

Latest versions of giflib are currently hosted at:
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/giflib

== Overview ==

giflib provides code for reading GIF files and transforming them into 
RGB bitmaps, and for writing RGB bitmaps as GIF files.

The (permissive) open-source license is in the file COPYING.

You will find build instructions in build.txt

You will find notes on the library API in api.txt.

The project to-do list is in TODO.

GIF is a legacy format; we recommend against generating new images in
it.  For a cleaner, more extensible design with better color support
and compression, look up PNG.

== Project history ==

GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) was originally developed on the
CompuServe timesharing service in the late 1980s.  It was described
by a GIF standard issued in 1997 and revised in 1989.  A copy of the
GIF89 standard is included in the doc/ directory.

This code originated as a linkable library for DOS programs, together
with command-line tools for generating and viewing and analyzing GIF
images. The DOS code was written by Gershon Elber sometime between the
issue of GIF87 and the end of 1989 (1.0 is dated June 1989).

At some time no later than the end of 1989 Eric S. Raymond (aka "ESR")
ported this DOS version to System V Unix. Between 1989 and 1992 ESR
reworked various portions of the API, improving and simplifying 
the code's interface.

ESR's Unix port was incorporated into the NCSA/Netscape browser in
1994, which is how GIF became (with JPEG) one of the two most popular
image formats on the early Web.

Beginning around 1993, patent claims by Unisys over the LZW
compression method used in GIF theatened adverse legal consequences
for users and developers of programs incorporating the format.

One response to this was the development of PNG in 1995. Another was
that ESR sought a lead developer outside the U.S. to hand the project off 
to, and passed it to Toshio Kuratomi.  ESR remembers this as happening
in 1994, but that date could be wrong as 3.0 issued under ESR's name
in 1996.

Subsequently, the project shipped for some time as "libungif" with
support for compressed GIFs removed to avoid the LZW patent issues.
Compression support was merged back in after the last blocking patent
expired in 2004; this became release 4.0.0.

By 2006, support for PNGs was sufficiently universal that GIF could be
described as a legacy format.  Anything you can do with it GIF could
probably be better done with PNG. Nevertheless (and despite efforts
like "Burn All GIFs Day" in November 1999) the GIF format has remained
widely popular.

In April 2012 ESR rejoined the project to do some code cleanups 
and auditing, and Toshio Kuratomi asked him to take back the lead.

This code is very old, very stable, and *everywhere* - browsers
game consoles, smartphones, pretty much everything that opens an
HTTP port and does graphics uses it.

The utilities in this source tree were important as GIF production
tools early in the format's history, but have been superseded by
multi-format viewers and editors.  Most installable binary packages
shipped as 'giflib' include the library and header file only.
